=head1 NAME

channel_import - Script to Import channels.conf to MythTV Multiplexes and Channels

=head1 Read Me First

This script will work for UK users of Freeview (Digital Terrestrial) and
Freesat (Digital Satellite), but likely no-one else. Patches to address this
limitation are very welcome.

=head1 Rationale

After a new installation of MythTV the dubious pleasure of training the
backend for local satellite and terrestrial channels awaits. If you're lucky,
the setup program's scanner will work, and EIT program lineups can be
downloaded. Along with that comes the myriad of adult and shopping channels.

All the author really wanted was about 20 "standard" channels installing, in a
consistent and repeatable manner, without having to understand the schema of,
and hack on, the C<channel> and C<dtv_multiplex> database tables, ever again.
Furthermore EIT lineups just aren't as good as trusty Radio Times, but the
consequence is that XMLTV IDs must be installed, which is tedious at best.

This script makes all this quite possible, and almost painless.

=head1 Dependencies

=over 4

=item *

Perl

=item *

L<DBIx::Class>

=item *

L<HTTP::Lite>

=item *

L<File::Slurp>

=back

=head1 Step 1: Channel Scan

You must scan the satellite and terrestrial feeds and arrive at a list of
channels which interests you. The author has supplied his own as an example,
in this distribution. For UK Freesat you can probably copy the example, but
the Freeview frequencies will only be correct for the Hannington/Berkshire
area.

Sample command for scanning the Freesat service:

 w_scan -f s -c GB -s S28E2 -R 0 -O 0 -E 0 -a <adapternum> >DigitalSatellite.conf

Sample command for scanning the Freeview service:

 scan /usr/share/dvb/dvb-t/uk-Hannington -x 0 -t 1 -o vdr -a <adapternum> >DigitalTerrestrial.conf

Substitue C<adapternum> for the device number of the DVB adapter on your
system. The author uses C<udev> to fix these between reboots (see below).

You B<must> use VDR style output, whatever scan command you use (i.e. if you
use C<dvbscan> or don't follow the above). You don't have to have both
satellite and terrestrial - the script only works with one file at a time.

Edit these generated files so that they contain only the channels you're
interested in. It's best if you name the file after the Video Source name you
used in C<mythtv-setup>.

=head1 Step 2: Import to MythTV

There is a flag to request removal of all existing channel and multiplex
configuration from MythTV. Use this only after backing up your database. To
enable the flag, set the C<RESET_MYTH_CHAN_MPLEX> environment variable to a
true value:

 RESET_MYTH_CHAN_MPLEX=1 ...

You'll need the password for your MythTV C<mythconverg> database. It's usually
to be found in C</etc/mythtv/mysql.txt>. Pass this in an environment variable
called C<MYTHCONVERG_PASS>:

 MYTHCONVERG_PASS=letmein ...

If you named the output file from the scan after your Video Source, then
simply run the script like so:

 bin/channel_import -c <ChannelScanOutputFile.conf>

If you need to specify the Video Source name, use the additional option:

 bin/channel_import -s <VideoSourceName> -c <ChannelScanOutputFile.conf>

Don't forget to set the C<MYTHCONVERG_PASS>, and make sure only to set the
C<RESET_MYTH_CHAN_MPLEX> flag once, otherwise only your most recent import
will have an effect.

I<It's safe to run the import script more than once with the same channel data
file. In fact this is a good way to update the channels list.>

=head1 Script Output

Other than error messages (see below), the script creates one file in the
current direcory. This is the configuration used by C<mythfilldatabase> when
updating your database using C<tv_grab_uk_rt>.

The file is named C<< <videosource>.xmltv >> and should be copied to the
C<~/.mythtv> directory of the user which runs C<mythfilldatabase> (typically
C<mythtv>).

=head1 Error Messages

 No videosource defined (use -s <sourcename>)

You missed the C<-s> option, and the name of the scan file couldn't be parsed
to guess a Video Source name.

 Unknown video source '<videosourcename>' (use -s <sourcename>)

You missed the C<-s> option, and the name of the scan file doesn't match the
name of a Video Source. Or, you supplied the C<-s> option with the wrong
value.

 Unable to get document: ...

Internet access is required for this script to be successful. It downloads
some XMLTV IDs.

 Skipping (<T|S>) channel '<callsign>/<serviceid>' with no xmltvid

Unfortunately one of your channels has no XMLTV ID defined in the online
lineup listing. If you want to attempt a fix, change the Callsign (first field
in the scan file) to be something featured in the XMLTV ID data (see below).

 Skipping (<T|S>) regional channel '<callsign>/<serviceid>' (please update callsign)

Some terrestrial channels have regional variations in listings so have
different XMLTV IDs, which aren't given in the online channel lineup listing.
If you want to attempt a fix, change the Callsign (first field in the scan
file) to be something featured in the XMLTV ID data (see below). The new name
can be from either of the freeview or freesat names lists.

=head1 Further Information

=head2 XMLTV ID lineup list

=over 4

=item *

L<http://supplement.xmltv.org/tv_grab_uk_rt/lineups/freesat.map>

=item *

L<http://supplement.xmltv.org/tv_grab_uk_rt/lineups/freeview.map>

=back

=head2 VDR Channels Configuration Format

=over 4

=item *

L<http://linuxtv.org/vdrwiki/index.php/Syntax_of_channels.conf>

=back

=head2 Fixing DVB tuner card adapter ID between reboots

=over 4

=item *

L<http://blog.gorwits.me.uk/2011/01/31/persistent-dvb-tuner-device-names/>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Oliver Gorwits <oliver@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2011 by Oliver Gorwits.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system.

=cut

